Add `where` helper function to enable reproduction of fancier group constraints (#698)
calliope-project/calliope: docs/user_defined_math/helper_functions.md

# Helper functions

For [`where` strings](syntax.md#where-strings) and [`expression` strings](syntax.md#where-strings), there are many helper functions available to use, to allow for more complex operations to be undertaken within the string.
Their functionality is detailed in the [helper function API page](../reference/api/helper_functions.md).
Here, we give a brief summary.

> Some of these helper functions require a good understanding of their functionality to apply, so make sure you are comfortable with them before using them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Helper functions generally require a good understanding of their functionality, so make sure you are comfortable with them beforehand.
```

## inheritance

> using `inheritance(...)` in a `where` string allows you to grab a subset of technologies / nodes that all share the same [`template`](../creating/templates.md) in the technology's / node's `template` key.
> If a `template` also inherits from another `template` (chained inheritance), you will get all `techs`/`nodes` that are children along that inheritance chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `inheritance(...)` in a `where` string allows you to grab a subset of technologies / nodes that all share the same [`template`](../creating/templates.md) in the technology's / node's `template` key.
If a `template` also inherits from another `template` (chained inheritance), you will get all `techs`/`nodes` that are children along that inheritance chain.
```

## defined

Similar to [any](syntax.md#any), using `defined(..., within=...)` in a `where` string allows you to check for non-NaN values along dimensions.
In the case of `defined`, you can check if e.g., certain technologies have been defined within the nodes or certain carriers are defined within a group of techs or nodes.

So, for the definition:

```yaml
techs:
  tech1:
    base_tech: conversion
    carrier_in: electricity
    carrier_out: heat
  tech2:
    base_tech: conversion
    carrier_in: [coal, biofuel]
    carrier_out: electricity
nodes:
  node1:
    techs: {tech1}
  node2:
    techs: {tech1, tech2}
```

`defined(carriers=electricity, within=techs)` would yield a list of `[True, True]` as both technologies define electricity.

`defined(techs=[tech1, tech2], within=nodes)` would yield a list of `[True, True]` as both nodes define _at least one_ of `tech1` or `tech2`.

`defined(techs=[tech1, tech2], within=nodes, how=all)` would yield a list of `[False, True]` as only `node2` defines _both_ `tech1` and `tech2`.

## sum

> Using `sum(..., over=)` in an expression allows you to sum over one or more dimension of your component array (be it a parameter, decision variable, or global expression).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `sum(..., over=)` in an expression allows you to sum over one or more dimensions of your component array (be it a parameter, decision variable, or global expression).

```
